There was no little pretence now -- no formal veneer of conversation. They wre five enemies linked together by a mutual instince of self-preservation.



All of them, suddenly, looked less like human beings. They were reverting to bestial types. Like a wary old tortoise, Mr. Justice Wargrave sat hunched up, his body motionless, his eyes keen and alert. Ex-Inspector Blore looked coarser and clumsier in build. His eyes bloodshot. His walk was that of a padding animal. He was like a beast ready to charge its pursuers. Philip Lombard 's sense seemed heightened, rather than diminished. His ears reacted to the slightest sound. His step was lighter and quicker. His body was lither and graceful. And he smilled often, his lips curling back from his long white teeth.



Vera Claythorne was very quite. She sat most of the time huddled in a chair.  Her eyes stared ahead of her into space. She looked dazed.  She was like a bird that has dashed its head against glass and that has been picked up by a human hand. It crouches there, terrified, unable to move, hoping to save itself by immobility.



Armstrong was in a pitiable condition of nerves. He twitched and his hands shook. He lighted cigarette after cigarette and stubbed them out almost immediately. The forced inaction of their position seemed to gall him more than others.  Every now and then he broke out into a torrent of nervous speech.



The rain was pouring down again. The wind came in fitful gusts. The depressing sound of the pattening rain nearly drove tham mad.



By tacit consent, they had adopted a plan of campaign. They all sat in the big drawing room. Only one person left the room at a time. The other  four waited till the fifth returned.



The midday meal hat been duly eaten--but there had been no conventional formality about it. All five of them had gone to the kitchen. In the lader they had found a great store of tinned foods. They had opend a tin of tongue and two tins of fruit. They had eaten standing  round the kitchen table. Then, hearding close together, they had returned to the drawing room -- to sit ther,sit,watching each other.



He came back with a box of candles and a pile of saucers. Five candles were lit and placed about the room.



Self-righteous sumg old hypocrite. What was it the old geezer had said? Blore snorted with a kind of savage satisfaction. For all his sagacitey, for all his caution and astuteness, the old judge had gone the way of the rest.

I will talk to your mother on the beach, and distract her attention.

Horrid whiney little boy, always pestering her.