what books provide: a way of reaching out across time and space to friends and strangers, an to the absent presences that plays such a large part in all our lives.



1 the first letter,1949 10 5 from Helene Hanff .

the first letter described Helena Hanff herself was a poor writer with an antiquarian taste in books, but no ability to get over except rare expensive editions, or makred-up schoolboy copies in a grimy book store.



2  reply to her on 1949 10 25.

the replay mentioned modern books in cloth binding, what is this?



3 reply to book store,1949 11 03

Helene Hanff said she was very satisfied with the books, made a comparison between usa and england books, then she asked to order bible mentioned in the second letter, and attached money estimated for these books.



4 reply to HH, 1949 11 9

the store adviced HH to send money by postal money order rather than just entrusting dollar bills to the emails. Then sent off the New Testaments and invoice including amount due in both pounds and dollars. so an invoice could contain different amounts?



5 reply to book store, 1949 11 18

this letter had no honorific, as HH was angry with the Protestant Bible sent by the store. HH was a Jewish, but had many relatives who had different religion beliefs. 

In this letter, HH put up a request to subscribe a new book.



6 reply to HH, 1949 11 26

The store had found books requested in 11-18 letter, and they apologized for their mistake.

And the store used the onver payment to set an account for HH.



7 reply to book store, 1949 12 08

HH expressed her love for secondhand books, and she called those who hated to read new books as "Comrade".

In this letter, HH said the British boyfriend of the girl living upstairs told her Britain was in food ration, so she sent Christmas present to the store.



8 letter from HH, 1949 12 09

In this letter, she told them the gift was a 6-pound ham, but she thought there were Kosher in the store from names on the invoice, so she asked if she needed to send them some tongue, and she hoped FPD could give some advice.



9 letter from book store, 1949 12 20

In this letter,  FPD thanked HH, and talked sb about their staffs, Mr. Marks and Mr. Cohen, and he said things in the parcel were hard to see or get that might only be had through black market.

Finally, he signed with his real name: Frank Doel instead of FPD.



10 letter from HH, 1950 03 25

In this letter, HH was angry that  Frank had not sent her books for a long long time, she complained that she could only writing long margin notes in library books that not belong to him. Then she might send a Easter bunny with Egg to Frank.

Finally she said want to get some books about love poem.

Maybe some letters missing during this period?



11 letter from book store, 1950 04 07

Frank said they had got the gift which was some tins and shell eggs. 



12 letter from Cecily Farr, 1950 04 07

This letter was from CF, an employee in this shop, she secretly this letter to HH, as at most times,  replies were from Frank. She mentioned their thanks for tie tins and eggs, her kids and sth about Frank, who was a late thirty man with a wife from Ireland.



13 letter from HH, 1950 04 10

In this letter, HH told about her real life, she never studied in university, lived in a old building without heat, and only loved books.

She hoped to go to London to look for English literature.



14 letter from Frank, 1950 09 20

Very strange, they did not write to the other for such a long time.

Frank said they had found some books HH might want, and wait for her replay to decide if to send to her.



15 letter from HH, 1950 09 25

She said she wanted the 2 books, and said she had no other places to buy books, as London was closer from where she sat.

Besides, she talked about a lawsuit.

This was her first edition of one book, so she sent a small parcel to celebrate to the store.



16 letter from Cecily, 1950 10 02

Cecily sent some photos about her and her husband taken in where her husband stationed with the RAF.

Cecily invited HH to visit London next summer, and could offer a house for her visit.

She mentioned another employee, Megan Wells, secretary to the bosses. She invited HH to an island next summer with Megan and herself.

She mentioned another employee,Ben Marks.



17 letter from HH, 1950 10 15

 I feel vaguely guilty about owning it(the book).



18 letter from Frank, 1950 11 01

He expressed sorry for the pages used for wrapping, and explained why he was so late to response.



19 letter from Frank, 1951 2 2

may some letters were lost during this period.

Frank said there were 6 people in this shop, not including Mr. Marks and Mr. Cohen.



20 letter from Cecily, 1951 02 20

Cecily taught HH how to make a kind of pudding for Brian's birthday.



21 letter from HH to Cecily, 1951 02 25

HH said the pudding was great, then she said Christmas parcel was cheap.

Finally, she said a TV producer asked if she was willing to write for TV, and she would meet him.



22 letter from Cecily, 1951 04 04

Cecily wrote this letter to express their thanks for Easter parcel as Frank was out on business.



23 letter from Megan Wells to HH,1951 04 05

Megan Wells wrote this letter to express his thanks for Easter parcel. From the 2 letters, we can find meat was still short at that time.



24 letter from Bill  Humphries to HH, 1951 04 05

BH said he was a cataloguer at this shop for 2 years and wrote this letter to express his thanks for his shae-out in these parcels.

He said he lived with his 75 yeas old great-aunt, the she had delight on her face when saw the meat and tin of tongue.



25 letter from Frank to HH, 1951 04 09

Frank said he was busy with collecting different books through various and stately homes of England to fill up their depleted stock. He said his wife called himself lodger as he just went home for bed and breakfast, but with the milk, eggs and ham,  all dissatisfaction had gone away.



26 letter from HH to all at 84, 1951 04 16

HH expressed her  thanks and surprise for the book, because this was the first time she owned a book with pages edged all round in gold, and it arrived on her birthday. 

Besides, she was angry with her country, the USA, pouring millions into rebuilding Japan and Germany, while letting England starve, she said she would go to England one day oto apologize personally for her country's sins.



27 letter from Maxine to HH, 1951 09 10

This letter was from Maxine, a friend of HH, she visited this shop, and described her feelings in this letter.

She also said, food-shortate problem got better, but price for meat was still high, except that the rate exchange was good so she could afford. But sugar was still in serious shortage.



28 letter from HH to Maxine, 1951 09 15

This letter was from HH to Maxine, to expres her thanks for letter on 09-10.

She hoped Maxine could write more letters describing London to her.



29 letter from HH to Frank,  1951 10 15

In this letter, she complained the shop sent here a pseudo book called Pepy's diary, and she was angry and asked them to find a real book to her, and she would rip up this book page by page  to wrap things after she got origin version.

Then she asked if sent them fresh eggs or powdered eggs for Xmas.



30 letter from Frank to HH, 1951 10 20

In this letter, Frank had apologized for the Pepy, and promised to find the lost parts for HH.

Besides,  he said they would buy a private library, and had found  some books HH might interested in.

They advised fresh eggs and hoped Churchill and his Company could win the election, then might have better times.



31 letter from HH to Frank, 1951 11 02

In this letter, HH expressed her guilty , as Frank had done hard to get books she needed but she never thanked him instead often needled him.

Then she asked if they had some hard-cover vocal scores.

Finally, she asked if Frank was Welsh.



32 letter from Frank to HH, 1951 12 07

Frank said the eggs and tins had arrived safely.  One of the older members of their staff, Mr. Martin had the lion's share, one whole boxful as he had been sick for a while. 

He had enquired all the local music shops, but was unable to get the vocal scores,  then he bought some new editions at a high price.

They sent HH a Christmas gift. a linen which kept their fingers crossed.

He said he might be descendants of the French according to his name's rhyme.



33  letter from Frank, 1952 01 15

In this letter, Frank said sth about the gift they sent to her, it was from a 80 lady who lived next door to him, and this lady liked to do needlework as a hobby.

Then he gave up a way for HH to clean up her Grolier Bible.



34 letter from Nora Doel to HH, 1952 01 20

Nora told HH the address of that 80 lady.

Then she introduced their family member to HH, they had one 12 years old daughter whose mother was Frank's first wife, and died during war. Then they had a 4 weeks old daughter. The couple had married for 4 years.



35 letter from Mary Boulton, 1952 01 29

Mary Boulton was the madam who made the linen.



36 letter from HH go Maxine, 1952 02 09

In this letter, HH asked Maxine if she could send some nylon shoes to the shop for her. 

She said the linen was too beautiful and imaged using it to make tea.

Then she said Ellery raised her to 250$ a script, so she could visit England and the shop one day, and she imaged that scenery.

Finally she talked sth about peanuts, why?



37 letter from HH to Frank, 1952 02 09

HH complained to Frank that they were too slow to send books to here.

She said:  I do not buy book I have not read, it's like buying a dress you have not tried on.

She wanted a book called  Walton's Lifes,  but could only read it in a library.



38 letter from Frank to HH, 1952 02 14

Frank said all letters relating to books would have a copy to go into the shop's office files, so he had to write to her in a formal address. But this letter had no copy.

He said everyone was thrilled how the 4 nylons appeared in this shop without informing anyone. 

He said Mr George Martin had been ill for some time and died away in hospital last week, besides the King had died suddenly, so everyone was mournful.

He promised to HH that if she came to England, he would offer a bed for her.



39 letter from HH to Frank, 1952 03 03

She said it was incredible that a book published in 1840 could be in such a perfect condition after more than 100 years later.

Then she said she was writing arty murders for Ellery Queen on television,  she might write one in their shop and asked if Frank wanted to be a murderer or corpse in her book.



40 letter from Mary Boulton to HH, 1952 03 24

She expressed her thanks for the parcel sent to her from HH.



41 letter from Frank to HH, 1952 04 17

Frank said they purchased a private library, and would send a book to HH.



42 letter from Nora to HH, 1952 05 04

Nora said Cecily had left the shop to meet her husband in East.

She enclosed some snaps to HH.

She said her family would like to buy a car, but too expensive and might purchase a secondhand one, while new cars were exported so they might have to wait for 5 to 7 years.



43 letter from HH to Frank, 1952 05 11

HH wrote this letter to thank Frank for the book Angler. 

She said: Well, if your books cost what they’re worth I couldn’t afford them!

She said she had got round to Pride & Prejudice and hoped Frank to get a copy of this book to her, though she had hated novels before.



44 letter from Nora to HH, 1952 08 24

Nora said they bought a secondhand car. 

Her two cousins had come down from Scotland to stay for a while, and lived with Mr. Boulton.



45 letter from Frank to HH, 1952 08 26

Frank said his family would have a holiday to sea beginning from September 1 , and the car was a 1939 model.

hard-earned

have pity on



46 letter from HH to Frank, 1952 09 18

HH thanked Frank for Sam Pepys, and the previous owner was a slob, who  never bothered to cut the pages. The book was printed on India paper,  called "onion skin" in USA, which was very thin.  Because HH would throw out those books that she never read again, like throwing away cloths she never weared again. But she only had 3 bookshelves and few books left to throw out , so she had no more space to keep books, while this book was very thin.

She said she had a month's vacation, and would have to have her teeth capped while the cost was astronomical. But she would still buy books and asked for some Shaw's books.

Besides, she said it was going to be a long cold winter, she would baby-sit in the evenings and need reading.

wasetbasket

throne



47 letter from HH to Frank, 1952 12 12

HH said she was very excited to get the book called Book-Lovers'  Anthology, and she thought it was an uneven exchange of Christmas presents, as Frank would  eat things up in a week and had nothing left by New Year's Day, while she would  have her until  the day she died and died happily in a knowledge that she was  leaving it behind for sb else to love this book.

pristine

sprinkle



48 letter from Nora to HH, 1952 12 17

Nora expressed sorry for she had been so long  in dropping her a line.

Mr.  Boulton said she would gladly put HH up if she came to England next summer.

She said HH was too kind, and if those bodies at Marks  & Co did not give her a banquet when she came to England, they deserved to be shot.

banquet

cheerio

drop sb a line



49 letter from HH to Frank, 1953 05 03

HH said Ellery went offf the air, but a TV show invited her to write script outline about incidents from the lives of famous person and  people liked the script and the show intended to give her more work.

impeccable 

slim

pile up



50 letter from Frank to HH, 1953 07 11

Frank said HH's parcel arrived safely, and he invited some friends to his home to watch TV one day, while the ham HH sent to him was most welcome.



51 letter from Cecily to HH, 1953 09 23

Cecily told HH not to send things to them as everything was off rations, and HH should save money for her trip to England. She said she would go to join her husband with their kids, her husband was on service in Bahrein Island.

dash off

atlas

pop off



52 letter from HH to Frank, 1955 09 02

A very strange letter, so long from last letter?

playwright



53 letter from Frnak to HH, 1955m 12 13

Frank explained that he had a flu kept him away from the shop for a couple of weeks and a sudden rush of work since he came back.

He  said they would be pleased to root for the Brooklyn Dodgers(HH mentioned this club in the last letter) if HH was willing to cheer for the SPURS club.

reciprocate

uninitiated

languish



54 letter from HH to Frank, 1956 01 04

very hard to read and translate.



55 letter from Frank to HH, 1956 03 16

Frank said it was a long time since last letter, and they were looking for books for HH and had nothing in hand.

He said  Mrs. Boulton had been taken to a home.



56 letter from HH to Frank, 1956 07 01

HH said she got eviction notices and had to move to a new address, as the building she was living in was renovated. 

Her landlord felt they moved too slowly, and tried some negative means to "encourage" them to leave.

HH said it was time for her to get a real apartment with real furniture, so she signed a lease on a 2.5(bed-sitter) apartment that was still in construction, bought new furniture and bookshelves and carpet which  had cost her money for England trip.

Besides, her loved club disintegrated, so she had too much trouble.

Finally, she gave her new address.

willow

renovate

lease

dilapidated

cockroachy

rip ou



57 letter from Frank to HH, 1957 05 03

Frank said they had prepared well the 3 books HH asked in last letter, and encouraged HH to come to England, as more and more American visitors came here.



58 letter from Ginny to HH, 1957 05 06

Ginny said she and her husband had come to this bookshop, told who they were, and got enthusiastic welcome, everyone would like to have wine and dine with them. Finally the couple got  out alive, and would have a trip to the European continent.

dine



59 letter from HH to Frank, 1958 01 10

HH told Frank to give new address to Nora, then she said sth but I cannot understand.

enchanting 

rape



60 letter from Frank to  HH, 1958 03 11

Frank said they were busy recently. His wide had been  in hospital for some time, and prepared to return home, while they had been in a trying time, but cost none penny due to their National Health Service.

He would have  a trip to find books. 

hectic

trying time



61 letter from Nora to HH, 1958 05 07

Nora sent HH some photos of her family,  then had at least 2 daughters,  one was born from Frank's ex-wife, who was Welsh, and Nora herself was Isle. 

Nora hated writing and showed bad on paper.

hail from



62 letter from Frank to HH, 1959 03 18

In this letter, Frank said he was sorry for that he promised to offer a book for HH's friend, but sb bought it when his back was turned. 

In this letter, we know HH's television show would move to Hollywood, and HH refused to go there, so she had to find a new job.



63  letter from HH to Frank, 1959 08 15

HH said she had got a new job, and she was writing America history dramatizations. She began from a script about New York under seven years of British Occupation duiring 1776 to 1783, which she thought was filthy.

filthy



64 letter from Frank to HH, 1959 09 02

Frank said they were broad-minded about her choice of subject matter, but one of his inmates admitted he did not know England had had "the States" until this letter.

broad-minded

confess



65 letter from HH to Frank, ???

hard to read this part.



66 letter from Frank to HH, 1960 03 05

Frank found some good books for HH, while her credit with them had less money than needed.

correspondence



67 letter from HH to Frank, 1960 05 08

In this letter, HH mentioned a person named De Tocqueville, who was he?

She said, she had a pearl-handled fruit knife her mother left to her.

smug





68 letter from HH to Frank, 1961 02 02

HH said she wrote a story paid for 200$, and the magazine let her write the story of her life.

Then she mentioned a French book, she let Frank bought it but never mailed her, instead she would buy one volume from them, as the book has 6 volumes.

abserable

abridgement

lug



69 letter from Frank to HH, 1961 02 15

Frank said they had a set of this book HH asked in last letter, and would mail them at once, while HH had a good credit in this shop.



70 letter from HH to Frank , 1961 03 10

deadbeat

caption

stoic

anecdote



71 letter from Frank to HH, 1963 10 14

Frank told HH he had found some books HH wanted and sent them to her, if she wanted more, he could get them with the same efficiency and swiftness.

Then  he said everything was as usual, and his eldest daughter decided to be a teacher, so she threw up her secretarial job and went to college two years ago, and had another year to go on.

jog

throw up job

We are all well and jogging along as usual. 



72 letter from Frank to HH, 1963 09 09

Frank found a modere version of Chaucer's Canterbury Tales, which was not complete, but was cheap and seemed to be a scholarly job, so sent to her.

come across

whet

appetite



73 letter from HH to Frank, no date

In this letter, HH said she liked the nun in this book, who could eat so dainty with her fingers that she never dripped any grease on herself, then other parts did not whets her appetite as they were all stories and she did not like stories.

nun

dainty

drip

grease

intrigue

flop





74 letter from HH to Frank, 1964 03 30

HH said she was writing her fourth children's history book, and asked if Frank could help one  of her friends to get books he needed. The boy would also buy them  piecemeal as he was a pauper.

Then she inquired if Frank had any  inform about Cecily  and Megan.

piecemeal

pauper



75 letter from Frank to HH, 1964 04 14

have enough of

stop in

Frank told HH they had found books HH's friend needed.

Then he told HH,  they had not heard from Cecily in some years, and Megan had gone to Austria to try her luck, and before that, she had stopped in London.



76 letter from Frank to HH, 1965 10 04

Frank said they were older and busier, but no richer.

And from this letter, we can know HH must have had written letters to the shop, which was not published here.

horde



77 letter from HH to Frank, 1968 09 30

So long from last letter?

HH said she was writing American history for kids about 4 or 5 years.

She bought American history books, which were ugly, in cardboardy American editions.

She introduced a friend to Pride & Prejudice, and she had gone out of mind for Jane Austen, so HH asked if the shop could find some Austen for her.

stately



78 letter from Frank to HH, 1968 10 16

Frank said they were busy,  as many tourists came to England and bought their books, leading to the shortage of books, so they could find Jane Austin for her friend before her birthday.

Then he introduced his family's members' situation.

kick

hectic

glamorous

recede



79 letter from  Joan Todd to HH, 1969 01 08

J T was secretary of this shop, and she said Frank had died of peritonitis. Frank had worked for more than 40 years in this shop.

set in